Simple Storage service & Elastic block store
- S3 is Object level storage 
- S3 to used for WORM operations (Write once read many times)
- Scalable, size not be planned
- but, not suitable for hosting OS or DB

- EBS is block storage
- EBS works best as server disks
- Persistance and high performance in terms of read and write
- Replicated with in AZ and could be mounted to one EC2 in the same AZ

Elasic File System
- Could be mounted to multiple EC2 at the same time
- Could be mounted to on premise server as well (over VPN (or) DirectConnect)

----------------------
- Refuse the connection If try to connect to EC2 instance using SSH. It means Port 22 is not lessening from outside. 
   Authenticate inbound rule in security group.Edit “source” is 0.0.0.0
- Every reboot public IP will be change for instance. If we want to stick to one public IP than change it as Elastic IP. For assign this go to 
  ‘Elastic IP’ under  “network & security”

-------------------------------- AWS Tutorial _ AWS Certified Solutions Architect _ Amazon AWS _ AWS Training _ Edureka - YouTube (720p) -------------------------------------
AWS compute services: 
1) EC2: reusable compute capacity in cloud, which can be customised according to our need.
2) Lambda: Execute background tasks, not for hosting an application.  
3) Elastic beanstalk: Deploy application without worrying about the underlaying hardware. If we want to host java based website, 
   we need to create java environment, just we have to select type of environment using Elastic beanstalk. Just upload your code everything will 
   provide from Elastic beanstalk. It is automatic form in EC2. Some of the environments not provided in this, that time we will create environment 
   in EC2 and upload code in that environment.  
4) Elastic load Balancer: distribute the workload on the deployed instances. traffic is distributed to EC2 instances over multiple available zones, 
   and dynamic addition and removal of Amazon EC2 hosts from the load-balancing rotation .It is protocol. It can dynamically grow and shrink 
   the load-balancing  capacity to adjust to traffic demands and also support sticky sessions to address more advanced routing needs.
5) Auto Scaling: scale up and down automatically 

AWS Storage services:
1) S3(simple storage service): Object oriented file system. First crate bucket (just like folder) in S3, now we can upload files into bucket 
   in the form of object. 
2) Cloudfront: content delivery network. it improves the performance
3) Elastic Block Storage: Block level storage, provides high IOPS(IOPS are a unit of measure representing input/output operations per second). 
   It is like hard drive to EC2. One EC2 instance connected to multiple EBS volumes,  but one EBS volume connect only one EC2 instance.
4) Glacier: data archiving service. Offering low price storage. If we want to backup EC2 instance or any data not frequently access than 
   we have to use glacier storage 
5) Snowball: physical transfer of data to AWS infrastructure 
6) Storage Gateway: Provide seamless integration between your on premise servers and the AWS infrastructure 

AWS database services:
1)RDS: Relational database management services. It manages MySQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL etc.  
2)Aurora (built by Amazon): based on MySQL, but better performance than MySQL. Same MySQL  
3)DynamoDB: non-relational data base management service. Scaling this DB. We can store unstructured data in this DB. 
4)ElastiCache: set up, manage and scale a distributed cache-in environment in the cloud. If user send the request to DB multiple times. 
  Now ElastiCache store the result set and send back to user. Now request not connected the DB multiple times.   
5) RedShift: fully managed petabyte-scale data warehouse service.
- EC2 instance and DB instance in same VPC Security group 

AWS networking services:
- Internet gateway: it allows communication between instance in your VPC and the internet
- Route table: RT contains a set of rules. The default VPC already has a main route table
- Network access control List (NACL): For the default NACL all traffic is allowed (both in bound / out bound)
- subnetwork :  
1)VPC: Virtual private connection. It will communicate between the AWS services.  
2)Direct Connect: use AWS leased line to connect to AWS infrastructure.
3)Route 53: domain name system. If you give domain name in the URL. Route 53 will convert into actual public IP address. Redirect URL to IP address.

AWS management services:
1)CloudWatch: it is the monitoring tool
2)CloudFormation: it is tool is used to templatize the AWS infrastructure. This means if we want launch same infrastructure in 
  different environment like test, production. Than templatize the infrastructure and launch into another environment    
3)CloudTrail: it is logging service. It will create logs. These logs will store into S3.
4)CLI: AWS command line 
5)OpsWorks: it is configuration management tool. It has 2 parts stack, layers. Layers means different AWS services. All the layers combined together
  is called stack. If we need change the things in different layers no need to go into all levels. Change it in stack level than it will change 
  modifications in all layers, when deploy use OpsWorks. 
6)TrustedAdvisor: it is personal assistant
7) routing table 
8) network access control list 

AWS security services:
1) IAM (identification authentication management tool): It provides enhanced security and identity management for your AWS account
2) KMS (create and manage encryption keys to encrypt your data)

AWS application services:
1) SES (simple email service): bulk email service  
2) SQS (simple que service): queuing service which acts as a buffer (Ex: when we upload multiple images at a time, they have que in buffer, 
   when one image completed, that image remove from que).   
3) SNS (simple notification service): notification based on triggers.


